(upbeat music)
Let's talk about filter and find.
We've done that a little bit in the last couple of videos.
So feel free to skip this one.
If you're comfortable with how filter and find work,
Just wanna make sure we have our own dedicated video on it.
So you can come back to it when you need
a little bit of help on them.
So let's just go ahead and use these clean people
as an example right here we've got 26 44 and 75.
Very likely is the situation where you're like,
Okay, I either need to find one person
in that or I wanna filter that list down
to be a subset of it.
So let's say we wanna find people who are older
than 40 years old, we could say const over 40
is equal to clean people dot filter.
And the way that filter works
is that you loop over every single item in the array
and you either say yes, true or no false,
I want it, I don't want it, I want it, I don't want it.
So we can go in our filter here,
we'll use a regular function
here just to show you how it works.
And we'll take our person,
and we'll const let's just console log the person.
Good, we've got them each one.
And then what we can do say if the person dot age
is greater than 40, return true.
Else, return false, and of course,
I'm writing this really verbose just
to show you that you loop over each one
you check if they're over 40
and then we can let's console table over 40.
And we have a subset of that original array, right?
Just two people, okay, well, we can make this much smaller.
And I know we've done this over and over
by wanting to get really good at it.
Make this as small as you possibly can.
I'll pause the video right now.
Turn it into an arrow function,
turn it into an implicit return.
Just find a different way to go about it.
So how I would do this is what like, first of all, we said,
I don't really need an else, right?
Like because returning inside of a function
will stop it from running.
If we return true here, that's it.
Otherwise, we're gonna return false.
So the house isn't really all that needed.
But even further, since this is a what is called
a condition, this condition evaluates to true or false,
we can simply just return that.
And that is true or false so let's do that.
So just return that works exactly the same.
We can make this an arrow function.
Good, I can take off these parentheses
if I like the style preference all totally up to you.
We can make it an implicit return, sure why not?
Let's do it, I'll move that, move that and remove this.
I believe you can actually keep it like this.
If you take this off, you can keep it all on one line,
or you can leave them on their own line like this.
See, it works the same way.
If I'm doing an implicit return, it better be small enough
that I can put it on one line though.
So that's what I'm doing there.
So we loop over every single person,
check out the person is greater than 40.
That is true or false.
And that will return to us a subset.
If there ever is a situation where there's no people in it,
it will just give us an empty array.
I got to change that to console log to see.
You see it's an array of zero if you wanted to check
if there were any people in there,
we say if over 40 dot length and console log,
there are some people over 40 in this case,
since it's 400, there will be none but if I change
that to 40 it says there are some people over 40.
So that is what filter is find works the exact same way
except find will only find one item in the array
and return it where filter will always return
to you all of the items that match what you want.
So filter will always return an array,
and find will return the actual item that you want.
So if we (clearing throat) take a look at some,
let's look at some of the data that we've got up here.
Let's, say we wanna find a student
with the ID of five six five A.
Let's do that, so we will go down here,
and say const, student is equal to students
that find will loop over every single student.
And also this is a little bit weird right here.
So like I'm naming the return value student,
but then I'm also naming
the individual loop student, is that okay?
It's allowed it because the that student is gonna be scoped
to this function and this will be scoped
to the outer part is it confusing, absolutely.
So let's change this to something else, comma stud.
And we'll return the stud dot ID
is equal to five six five A console log student.
See, we've got the student we're looking for.
If that didn't match anything, what would we get?
We get undefined, so you always wanna check
if something got found you notice how it's not returning
to us an array of students it's to returning us an object,
which is the student itself.
I gets flipped that over to filter and it would return
to us an array of one item.
So that's the difference between filter
and find everything else is exactly the same.
One kinda neat thing that you could write is like,
okay, like maybe we can make a function here
that let's make this an external function
we'll call it is student that will take in a student,
and we will just return student dot ID
is equal to five six five A,
then we can pass simply pass the function here is student.
This is still work still works exactly the same.
Now, that's a little bit weird, right?
Like, why would we write a function that's hard coded
to just this specific ID.
It's more likely that we are going to be looking
for a student with a specific ID.
So what we could do is wrap
this in another function called find by ID.
And then in here, it will return take in an ID here.
And then we will return another function
that takes in the student and checks if it's the ID, right.
This is called a high order function
or a higher order function.
And it is a function that will return another function.
And then here, we can simply go in here and run find
by ID five six five A.
And what this will do is it will generate a new function
that is coded to the idea that we're looking for,
it still finds the right person.
So that's a little bit more flexible.
And then even further, we could make another function
that is even more flexible because like,
let's look at the students.
What other they have first name
and they have last name in their, right.
So we could make another function called find
by first name and find by last name.
But what happens if the student
has like 15 properties on it?
Are we gonna make 15 different find functions?
Well, we can actually modify this function
to be a little bit more flexible than that.
Let's write a totally separate one.
We have a function called find by prop
and that will take in both the prop
and the prop we are looking for.
And then inside of that we will return a function,
we can call it a student, you don't really have to name
that inner one if you don't want to.
And that will take the student.
So this is our looping function right here.
And then our case not we're not gonna return
if the student ID is equal to the ID,
but we're going to say return if the student property
that the person is looking for.
So we'll use square brackets here.
Prop is equal to the prop we are looking for.
Now this might be a little bit confusing to you,
but let me show you how it works.
We're gonna go in here we're going to find by prop
where the ID is equal to five six five A.
And what this does is it makes it really flexible.
That one still works, but I can make another student
where the first name property
is going to be equal to, Bendicty Micki
and we'll console log student two.
And there is Micki see how nice
of a flexible function that is.
So let's go over that one more time,
we take in a property or a key that we're looking for,
an actual key that they're looking for.
We take in a prop and a prop that they're looking for.
So what I mean by that is you take in a key
and a value or a property and a value on either side
and it's going to look in that object
for whatever property you specified
is equal to whatever value you have specified.
And the reason why we have to use square brackets
here and not the dot notation is because the property
that we're looking for is being passed in as a variable
or as an argument to that function.
So in this case, we're gonna say student dot first name
or student dot ID is equal
to either five six five A or Micki.
this is a little advanced, don't feel too let down.
It take took me years to sort of understand
the benefit of this and I really sort
of like nailed itself home when I did run into problems
where I said oh, this doesn't make sense
to be writing 12 different find functions.
Why don't I just make a function that returns
somewhat of a flexible function,
so don't feel like that will click right away,
it might take a couple of years.
Don't sweat it too too much.
So that is filter and find in the next one,
we are going to go into reduce